# Triggering Lambda from SQS

## Introduction

In this hands-on AWS lab, we will learn how to trigger a Lambda function using SQS. This Lambda function will process messages from the SQS queue and insert the message data as records into a DynamoDB table.

- Download the Lambda execution role IAM policy [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-lambda-boto3/master/Triggering-Lambda-from-SQS/lambda_execution_role.json).
- Download the Lambda function source code [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-lambda-boto3/master/Triggering-Lambda-from-SQS/lambda_function.py).

Log in to the AWS Management Console using the credentials provided on the lab instructions page. Make sure you are using the *us-east-1 (N. Virginia)* region.

## Create the Lambda Function

1. In the AWS Management Console, navigate to the Lambda service.

- Click **Create a function**.
- Under *Author from scratch*, give the function a name (e.g., "SQSDynamoDB").
- Under *Runtime*, choose **Python 3.7**.
- Under *Role*, choose **Create a custom role**.
- In the IAM role editor, click **View Policy Document**.
- Click **Edit**, then **Ok**.
- In a new browser tab, open the [IAM policy](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-lambda-boto3/master/Triggering-Lambda-from-SQS/lambda_execution_role.json) provided on the lab instructions page.
- Copy the policy text to your clipboard, and paste it in the policy document field in the IAM Management Console.
- Click **Allow**.
- On the *Create function* screen, click **Create function**.
- Under *Designer*, scroll down through the list of triggers and click **SQS**.
- Scroll down the page to *SQS queue*, and select the **Messages** queue from the dropdown.
- Set the batch size to **10**.
- Check the box next to **Enable trigger**.
- Click **Add**.
- Click the function name at the top of the page, and scroll down the page to the code editor.
- Paste the [function source code](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-lambda-boto3/master/Triggering-Lambda-from-SQS/lambda_function.py) into the function editor.
- Scroll down the page to the **Environment variables** header, and configure the following environment variables:
  - **Key:** QUEUE_NAME | **Value:** Messages
  - **Key:** MAX_QUEUE_MESSAGES | **Value:** 10
  - **Key:** DYNAMODB_TABLE | **Value:** Message
- Click **Save**.

## Send Messages to SQS

1. Open your terminal application, and connect to the public EC2 instance using the credentials provided on the lab instructions page.

   ```
   ssh cloud_user@&lt;PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS&gt;
   ```

- Type `yes` at the prompt.

- Enter your password at the prompt.

- List the contents of the root directory.

  ```
  ll
  ```

- Open the ``send_message.py``script and familiarize yourself with the contents.

  ```
  vim send_message.py
  ```

- Press **Ctrl + C** to exit the vim editor.

- Send a message to the ``Messages`` queue every 0.1 seconds (10 messages per second).

  ```
  ./send_message.py -q Messages -i 0.1
  ```

- Switch to your browser, and navigate to the CloudWatch service in the AWS Management Console.

- Click **Logs** in the left sidebar.

- Click the name of the log group to open it.

- Click one of the log stream links, and verify that the Lamda function has been triggered.

- Navigate to the DynamoDB service.

- Click **Tables** in the left sidebar.

- Select the **Messages** table.

- Click the **Items** tab.

- Click one of the listed items to open it.

- In the *Edit item* menu, verify that a record has been written to DynamoDB.

## Conclusion

Congratulations, you've successfully completed this hands-on lab!