# Creating and Subscribing to AWS SNS Topics

## Introduction

Welcome, AWS voyager. It's time we sit down and have a talk about Simple Notification Services (SNS). We're going to walk through creating a topic, and then pushing it out to different subscribers.

Log into the AWS Management Console, using the credentials provided on the lab instructions page, and let's make sure we're using the *us-east-1* region.

# Create an SNS Topic

We'll start off by getting into the **Simple Notification Service**, and we can find that in the main *Services* menu of the AWS console under *Application Integration*. This isn't the SNS dashboard itself, more of a welcome screen. But we can type **mytopic** in a box and click a **Create Topic** button. Once we've done that, we just have to enter a *Display name* (we'll use **MyTopic**) and click the **Create topic** button down at the bottom of the screen.

Now, in the *Subscriptions* screen, click **Create subscription**. The *Topic ARN* should contain just our single **arn:...** in it. We want the *Protocol* set to **Email**, and then we'll put our own email address in the *Endpoint* box. Once we click the **Create subscription** button, we've got to then confirm the subscription. In order to do the confirming, we've got to check our email, and click on the **Confirm subscription** link that AWS sent.

Now, if we refresh the *Subscriptions* page, we'll see ours listed with a **Confirmed** status.

Let's create a new one. Go through the same steps, but this time set **SMS** as a *Protocol*, and put in a cell phone number as an *Endpoint*. There is no confirmation step to this, so we're good to go.

## Create a Lambda Function

- 서버리스 
- 특정 언어로 코드 작성했으니 그 코드를 실행해라! (환경은 없어도 됨?)

Let's create a Lambda function that we'll use to subscribe to our SNS topic as well, and process the notifications from that topic. Leave the SNS tab alone for now, and open up a new one. Up in the main *Services* menu, find **Lambda** under the *Compute* section. At the Lambda "welcome screen," click **Create a function**.

On the next screen, give the function a *Name* of **SNSProcessor**, a *Runtime* of **Python 3.6**, and use the existing role of **LambdaRoleLA**. Click the **Create function** button.

Back in the SNS tab, create a new subscription with a *Protocol* of **AWS Lambda**, and pick our **SNSProcessor** as an endpoint. Leave the *Version or alias* set to **default**. Now we can click **Create subscription**.

Back in the Lambda tab, click on **SNSProcessor** in the upper half of the screen, then scroll down so that we can see the raw code. You'll notice it's JSON. We've got a Python script up on GitHub that we're going to use instead.

In a third browser tab, navigate to https://github.com/linuxacademy/aws-cda-2018/tree/master/sns/lab-files, and we'll see a `notification_processor.py` file sitting there. If we click on it, we can look at the code itself. Replace the code that's currently in our Lambda function with four lines from GitHub.

*Hint:* If we click on the **Raw** button above the code in Github, we'll get to a page with text we can copy, minus the line numbers.

Once we've pasted the new code in, we can click **Save**. We could test, but this code is so simple we're going to just keep moving.

## Publish to the Topic

Back in the SNS page, click on **Publish to topic**, and get into where we can type up a message to send.

Update: AWS Removed the JSON message generator. Our *Topic ARN* is already set to ours. Let's give this a *Subject* of **Our first message**. Set the *Message format* to **JSON**. Instead of typing in a message manually, click the **JSON message generator** button. Type **Hello, this is our first message** in the *message* box, and unselect all of the check boxes we don't need. The only check boxes that should be checked when we're done (out of the 16 or so there) will be *Email*, *Lambda*, and *SMS*.

Now click **Generate JSON**. Back out in the *Publish* window, we'll see some JSON code in the *Message* text area. In the interests of science, we may want to add **- This is an email** to the email line, **- This is a Lambda function** to the Lanbda line, and **- This is a text message** to the SMS line. Here's the email line:

```
"email": "Hello, this is our first message - This is an email",
```

Now when we click **Publish message**, the topic should go out three ways. We should get an email and a text. And if we head into the monitoring section of our Lambda function, we'll see the third message sitting there in the logs (by clicking the **Jump to logs** link). And each of them should have the proper **- This is...** message in it.

## Conclusion

Well, we've finished. We learned a bit about SNS, and got to play with it. We could set up more subscriptions (different phone numbers, emails, etc) but now that we've got the hang of it, we can call this lab done. Congratulations.

**Note: Please delete your email in the SNS section before closing the lab**