# Configuring SNS Push Notifications on S3 Bucket Events Inside of the AWS Console

In this hands-on lab, we will configure an S3 bucket to trigger AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS) notifications whenever an object is added to an S3 bucket. This scenario will help us understand how we can architect our application to respond to S3 bucket events using other services, such as SNS, AWS, Lambda, and others.

### The Scenario

In this scenario, either a user or a web application will be uploading files to an S3 bucket. For this lab, we're not going to create a web application to do this — we're just going to mimic this by uploading files to an S3 bucket directly, as the conditions are effectively the same. The S3 bucket will still receive the files and trigger events as usual.

We need to create an S3 bucket and configure event notifications to send events to an SNS topic. This will require us to create an SNS topic and modify the SNS topic policy to accept event notifications from the S3 bucket.

After we've done this, we need to make sure the SNS topic has two things:

- An SNS email subscription, which we'll pretend is being sent to a developer.
- An SMS (or text notification) subscription, which we'll pretend is being sent to a manager.

For the purposes of this lab, you'll use your own email address and mobile phone number in order for it to work. Let's get to it!

## Introduction to the Environment

To get started, log in to the live environment as `cloud_user` with the password provided. Make sure you're in the `us-east-1` region throughout the lab.

In the AWS Management Console, click **Services**, and right-click **S3** under *Storage* to open it in a new browser tab.

Then click **Simple Notification Service** under *Application Integration*. (You could also search "Simple Notification Service" in the search bar instead of scrolling around to find it.)

> **Note:** If you already see an S3 bucket listed in the S3 Management Console, you can ignore it — we'll create our own S3 bucket for this lab.

## Configuring an S3 Bucket and SNS Topic to Send Notifications on S3 Bucket Events

### Create the Bucket

In the S3 Management Console, click **+ Create Bucket**.

In the *Name and region* window, we first need to give our bucket a name. The *Bucket name* needs to be unique, so feel free to call it anything you like. Or you can use "s3uploads-myspecialbucketname" and then add whatever other characters you want after it. The *Region* should already be set to US East, so click **Next**.

We don't need to do anything in the *Configure options* window, so click **Next**.

Same for the *Set permissions* window — it's all staying the same, so click **Next**.

In the *Review* window, click **Create bucket**.

Before we move on, let's quickly do something that will save us some time later. Once you see your bucket listed, click in the space between the bucket name and where it says *Bucket and objects not public*. This will pop out a box from the right side of the screen. At the top of that box, click **Copy Bucket ARN** and paste the ARN into a text file or note on your desktop. We'll need it in a few minutes.

arn:aws:s3:::ok2qw66-20201008

### Create the SNS Topic

Now, head back to the AWS SNS browser tab. Click **Topics** in the sidebar, and click **Create new topic**. For *Topic name* and *Display name*, enter "S3Events". Click **Create topic**.

### Configure the Bucket — Part 1

Back in the S3 Management Console, click your bucket, and then click the **Properties** tab.

Under *Advanced settings*, click the **Events** box. Setting up events allows us to receive notifications whenever there are events happening in our bucket that we want to be notified about. Click **+ Add notification**.

For *Name*, enter "UploadNotification". Check the box next to **All object create events**. We'll leave the *Prefix* and *Suffix* boxes empty. In the *Send to* dropdown menu, select **SNS Topic**. In the *SNS* dropdown, select **S3Events**. Click **Save**.

We'll then receive an error: "Unable to validate the following destination configurations. Permissions on the destination do not allow S3 to publish notifications from this bucket." The reason we got this is because we haven't yet configured our SNS topic policy to accept notification events from our S3 bucket. Let's do that now. Click **Cancel**.

### Modify the SNS Topic policy

Back in the SNS topics screen, we'll see our SNS topic. Click into it to open it.

Just like we did with the S3 bucket ARN, copy and paste the topic's ARN into a text file or note on your desktop. We'll need it in a minute.

arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:684473621611:S3Events

In the topic details page, click the **Other topic actions** dropdown and select **Edit topic policy**.

주제 세부 정보 > 편집 > 액세스 정책 수정하기

In the *Edit topic policy* popup, click the **Advanced view** tab. We're going to keep the current statements in here and add a new one. After `"Statement": [` toward the top, press **Enter** to start a new line, and paste in the following:

```
{
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Principal": {
            "AWS": "*"
    },
        "Action": "SNS:Publish",
        "Resource": "SNS_ARN_REPLACE_ME",
        "Condition": {
            "StringEquals": {
                "aws:SourceArn": "S3_BUCKET_ARN_REPLACE_ME"
            }
        }
    },
```

Here's where we need to use the ARNs we copied and pasted before. In the `SNS:Publish` section, where it says, `SNS_ARN_REPLACE_ME`, paste in the SNS topic you added to that text file or note a minute ago. Then, copy and paste your S3 bucket ARN where it says `S3_BUCKET_ARN_REPLACE_ME`.

Make sure to leave the comma after the last bracket in our new statement, as this allows us to have more than one statement for this SNS topic's policy. Click **Update policy**. We should see a message that says, "Successfully edited topic policy" at the top.

Now, let's try to configure our bucket again.

### Configure the Bucket — Part 2

This will sound familiar: Back in the S3 Management Console, click the **Events** box and then click **+ Add notification**.

For *Name*, enter "S3uploads". Check the box next to **All objects create events**. We can leave the *Prefix* and *Suffix* boxes empty for now. In the *Send to* dropdown, select **SNS Topic**. In the *SNS* dropdown, select **S3Events**. Click **Save**.

This time, we should see we now have one active notification. Let's test it out.

### Create the Email Subscription

Back in the topic details page for our SNS topic, in the *Subscriptions* section, click **Create subscription**. In the *Protocol* dropdown, select **Email**. For *Endpoint*, enter your email address. Click **Create subscription**.

Once we create it, under *Subscription ID* in the *Subscriptions* section, we'll see a status of *PendingConfirmation*. Now, check your email, where you should have an email asking you to confirm your subscription. Click the **Confirm subscription** link to make sure you'll receive the notifications. You should then be directed to a "Subscription confirmed!" screen.

Next, refresh the *Subscriptions* section of the topic details page, where we should now see an actual subscription ID. Let's try something else out.

Click **Publish to topic**. Type whatever you'd like here. The *Subject* could just be "Hello", and the *Message* could be "Have a nice day". Then, click **Publish message**.

Now, check your inbox. After a few seconds, you should receive an email with what you just wrote. We did this manually here, but we want this to be generated automatically when something is uploaded to the S3 bucket.

Back in the S3 Management Console, click the **Overview** tab and click **Upload**.

Click **Add files**. Feel free to add any random file you have on your computer. Upload it here, and click **Next**.

Click **Next** on the *Set permissions* and *Set properties* windows, and then click **Upload**.

Go back to your inbox. You should have an email with a block of text that might be hard to understand, but reading through it, we can see there's a bucket that has had a new object uploaded to it. It also gives a bit of metadata about the object, including its size in bytes.

### Create the SMS Subscription

Back in the topic details page for our SNS topic, click **Create subscription** again. In the *Protocol* dropdown, select **SMS**. For *Endpoint*, enter your mobile phone number. Click **Create subscription**.

To test it out, head back to the S3 Management Console and upload a new file to the bucket. You should receive a text notification on your phone within a few minutes.

## Conclusion

Congratulations, you've successfully completed this lab!

**Note: Please delete your email in the SNS section before closing the lab.**