# Creating an Amazon Aurora RDS Database (MySQL Compatible)

## Introduction

In this hands-on lab, we will create an Aurora MySQL database. First, we will verify that the security group, network ACL, and route table are all configured to allow communication between an instance in a public subnet and an RDS database in a private subnet.

After verifying the appropriate settings are in place, we will create the database. Once that is done, we will use an EC2 instance as a bastion to allow us to connect to our private database from an external source. We will utilize MySQL Workbench to connect to our private RDS Aurora database through the public EC2 bastion.

## Solution

Log in to the live AWS environment using the credentials provided. Make sure you're in the N. Virginia (`us-east-1`) region throughout the lab.

Download and install MySQL Workbench on your desktop. This application is necessary to connect to the MySQL database. You can download the file [directly from MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/).

*Be sure to select the correct operating system!*

### Configure the Security Groups, Route Tables, and NACL

#### Verify Subnet Route Tables and NACL

1. Navigate to VPC.
2. Click **Subnets** in the left-hand menu, and we'll see there are three subnets listed.
3. With Public Subnet 1 selected, click the **Route Table** tab lower on the page, and verify it is associated with the route table that contains an internet gateway.
4. Click the **Network ACL** tab, and verify it allows all TCP traffic from ports 0 - 65535 and any source.
5. Un-select Public Subnet 1, and select Private Subnet 2.
6. Click the **Route Table** tab, and verify it is associated with the route table that *does not* contain an internet gateway.
7. Click the **Network ACL** tab, and verify it allows all TCP traffic from ports 0 - 65535 and any source.
8. Un-select Private Subnet 2, and select Private Subnet 3.
9. Click the **Route Table** tab, and verify it is associated with the route table that *does not* contain an internet gateway.
10. Click the **Network ACL** tab, and verify it allows all TCP traffic from ports 0 - 65535 and any source.

#### Configure Security Groups

1. Click **Security Groups** in the left-hand menu, and select the one listed.
2. Click the **Inbound Rules** tab, and then click **Edit rules**.
3. Set the following values:
   - *Type*: **SSH**
   - *Source*: **Anywhere**
4. Click **Save rules**.
5. Click **Create security group**.
6. On the **Create security group** page, set the following values:
   - *Security group name*: **Database**
   - *Description*: **Database security group**
   - *VPC*: Select our listed VPC
7. Click **Create**.
8. Select the Database security group in the table, click the **Inbound Rules** tab, and click **Edit rules**.
9. Click **Add Rule**, and set the following values:
   - *Type*: **MYSQL/Aurora**
   - *Source*: **Custom**, and then type **sg-** and select the default security group
10. Click **Save rules**.

### Set Up an EC2 Instance for SSH Tunneling

1. Navigate to the EC2 dashboard, and click **Launch Instance**.
2. On the AMI page, select the Amazon Linux AMI.
3. Leave *t2.micro* selected, and click **Next: Configure Instance Details**.
4. On the **Configure Instance Details** page:
   - *Network*: Leave default
   - *Subnet*: **Public Subnet 1**
   - *Auto-assign Public IP*: **Enable**
5. Click **Next: Add Storage**, and then click **Next: Add Tags**.
6. On the **Add Tags** page, add the following tag:
   - *Key*: **Name**
   - *Value*: **EC2Bastion**
7. Click **Next: Configure Security Group**.
8. Click to **Select an existing security group**.
9. Select the default security group (*not* our Database security group) in the table.
10. Click **Review and Launch**, and then **Launch**.
11. In the key pair dialog, select **Create a new key pair**.
12. Give it a *Key pair name* of "Bastion".
13. Click **Download Key Pair**, and then **Launch Instances**.
14. Click **View Instances**, and give it a few minutes to enter the *running* state.
15. Copy its public IP address into a text file, as we'll need it later in the lab.

### Create an RDS Aurora Database

#### Create Database Subnet Group

1. Navigate to RDS.
2. Click **Subnet groups** in the left-hand menu.
3. Click **Create DB Subnet Group**, and set the following values:
   - *Name*: **Aurora Subnet Group**
   - *Description*: **Aurora Subnet Group**
   - *VPC*: Select our VPC
4. Click **Add all the subnets related to this VPC**.
5. When the list of subnets appear, click to **Remove** the public subnet.
   - If you can't remember which is which, head back to the VPC dashboard to verify which CIDR block is associated with the public subnet.
6. Click **Create**.

#### Create Database

**Note**: AWS has recently updated the database creation screen. Please note that the video may show the old database creation process, but this lab guide has updated steps.

1. Click **Databases** in the left-hand menu.

2. Click **Create database**.

3. In the **Engine options** section, set the following values:

   - *Engine type*: **Amazon Aurora**
   - *Edition*: **Amazon Aurora with MySQL compatibility**
   - *Version*: **Aurora(MySQL)-5.6.10a**
   - *Database Location*: **Regional**

4. In the *Database features* section, select **One writer and multiple readers(단일 마스터)**.

5. In the *Templates* section, select **Dev/Test**.

6. In the **Settings** section, set the following values:

   - *DB cluster identifier*: **AuroraInstance**
   - *Master username*: **Admin**
   - *Master password*: Enter a password you'll be able to remember later

7. In the **DB instance size** section, select the following:

   - *DB instance class*: **Burstable classes (includes t classes)**
   - From the dropdown, select **db.t2.small**

8. In the *Availability & durability* section, set *Multi-AZ deployment* to **Create an Aurora Replica/Reader node in a different AZ**.

9. In the *Connectivity* section, ensure the **LinuxAcademy** VPC is selected.

10. Expand *Additional connectivity configuration*.

11. Select the **Aurora Subnet Group** we previously created.

12. Set the *Publicly accessible* flag to **No**.

    (VPC 내부의 Amazon EC2 인스턴스 및 디바이스만 데이터베이스에 연결)

13. Under *VPC security group*, select **Choose existing**, remove the default security group, and select the previously created security group named **Database**.

14. In the **Additional configuration** section, set the following values:

    - In the *Database Options* section, set *DB instance identifier* to **AuroraInstance**
    - In the *Database Options* section, set *Initial database name* to **Testdb**
    - In the *Monitoring* section, disable enhanced monitoring by un-checking **Enable Enhanced monitoring**.
    - In the *Deletion protection* section, disable deletion protection by un-checking **Enable Deletion protection**.

15. Click **Create database**. It will take a few minutes to finish being created.

16. On the database dashboard, click **aurorainstance**.

17. Copy the endpoint name that's associated with the *Writer* type, and paste it into text file, as we'll need it for the next step. (**Note**: Make sure you wait until its status is *Available* before attempting to connect in the next step.) 

    aurorainstance.cluster-cvopjwwtox7v.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com

#### Verify Connectivity Using MySQL Workbench

1. Open MySQL Workbench.
2. Click the plus sign by *MySQL Connections*.
3. In the **Setup New Connection** dialog, set the following values:
   - *Connection Name*: **Aurora**
   - *Connection Method*: **Standard TCP/IP over SSH**
   - *SSH Hostname*: Paste in the public IP address of our EC2 instance (which you copied earlier)
   - *SSH Username*: **ec2-user**
   - *SSH Key File*: Select the `.pem` key file we previously downloaded
   - *MySQL Hostname*: Paste in the endpoint name you copied in the previous part of the lab
   - *Username*: **Admin**
   - *Password*: **Store in Vault...**, and enter the password you entered when creating the database
4. Click **Test Connection**.
5. If an error pops up, this is fine — click **Ok**.
6. You should eventually see the connection was successful.
7. Click **OK** in the *Setup New Connection* dialog.
8. Double-click the new **Aurora** connection option that now exists, which will open the SQL Editor.
9. Run the query `SHOW DATABASES;` (by typing it into the editor and clicking the lightning bolt icon), which should return the *TestDb* schema — the one we identified while creating the Aurora database.

## Conclusion

Congratulations on completing this hands-on lab!