# AWS DynamoDB in the Console - Creating Tables, Items, and Indexes

## Introduction

Welcome to this live AWS environment for learning the fundamentals of using DynamoDB in the AWS console. This lab provides you with essential exposure to database concepts such as partition and sort keys, how to add, delete, and update items, as well as attributes inside of a DynamoDB table. You will also add local and global secondary indexes, and use the local secondary index to query for items in your table.

## Solution

Log in to the live AWS environment using the credentials provided. Make sure you're in the N. Virginia (`us-east-1`) region throughout the lab.

### Create a DynamoDB Table

1. Navigate to **DynamoDB**.
2. Click **Create table**.
3. In the AWS console, navigate to **DynamoDB** > **Tables**.
4. Click **Create table**, and set the following values:
   - *Table name*: **MusicNotes**
   - *Primary key*: **Artist**, **String**
5. Check **Add sort key**.
6. In the sort key field that appears, enter "SongTitle".
7. Leave it set as a **String**.
8. Un-check **Use default settings**.
9. In the *Auto Scaling* section, un-check **Read capacity**.
10. Un-check **Write capacity**.
11. Set the *Read capacity units* to **1**.
12. Set the *Write capacity units* to **1**.
13. Click **+ Add index**.
14. In the **Add index** dialog, set the following values:
    - *Primary key*: **Artist**
    - *Add sort key*: Check
    - In the field under *Add sort key*: **Rating**
    - *Create as Local Secondary Index*: Check
15. Click **Add index**.
16. Click **Create**. Give it a few minutes for table creation to complete.

### Creating Items

1. With the *MusicNotes* table selected, click the **Items** tab.
2. Click **Create item**.
3. Set the following values:
   - *Artist*: **Fernando**
   - *SongTitle*: **Sings**
   - *Rating*: **6**
4. Click **Save**.
5. Select the checkbox next to the item we just created.
6. Select **Actions** > **Edit**.
7. Click the **+** button to the left of our *SongTitle* string.
8. Click **Append** > **String**.
9. In the new string line after **SongTitle**:
   - *Attribute*: **Genre**
   - *String value*: **Rap**
10. Click **Save**.
11. Create another new item of your own so we can search for it later. Be sure to append a new string and provide the *Genre*.

### Creating a Global Secondary Index

1. Select the **Indexes** tab
2. Click **Create index**.
3. In the **Create index** dialog, set the following values:
   - *Primary key*: **Genre**
   - *Add sort key*: Check
   - In the field under *Add sort key*: **Rating**
4. Click **Create index**.
5. Once the index is created, the *Status* will change to *Active*, although we may have to press the refresh icon to see the status change.

## Query a DynamoDB Table

1. Click the **Items** tab.
2. Click the *Scan* dropdown, and select **Query**.
3. Ensure the next dropdown menu has **[Table](https://learn.acloud.guru/handson/98627abc-6348-4ac3-8c66-e03e76dfbf5a/course/178db59b-70f1-4bd8-8d74-9ab9263f8f9a) MusicNotes: Artist, SongTitle** selected.
4. For *Partition Key*, enter **Fernando**.
5. For *Sort Key*, change *=* to **Begins with**.
6. Enter the value **Sings** in the next field.
7. Click **Start search**.
   - Only songs by the artist *Fernando* and song titles beginning with *Sings* will be shown in the results list.
8. Change the dropdown menu next to *Query* to **[Index](https://learn.acloud.guru/handson/98627abc-6348-4ac3-8c66-e03e76dfbf5a/course/178db59b-70f1-4bd8-8d74-9ab9263f8f9a) Artist-Rating-index: Artist, Rating**.
9. Use the *Partition Key* of **Fernando**
10. Set *Sort Key* to **Rating**.
11. Provide a value of **3** for this query.
12. Click **Start search**.
    - Only songs by the artist *Fernando* with a rating of *3* will be shown in the results list.
13. For *Sort Key*, change *=* to **>**.
14. Provide a value of **4**.
15. Click **Start search**.
    - Only songs by the artist *Fernando* with a rating greater than *4* will be shown in the results list.

## Conclusion

Congratulations on successfully completing this hands-on lab!