# Monitoring and Notifications with CloudWatch Events and SNS

Since Engineers are critical to keeping our EC2 instances running to serve our traffic with minimal downtime, we are tasked with architecting a solution to have our Engineers alerted on all state changes to our Production EC2 instances. We are using CloudWatch and SNS to receive alerts to all EC2 state changes in our Production environment so that immediate corrective actions can be taken.

### Before we Begin

Use the provided credentials to log in to the AWS Management Console.

Make sure you are in the `us-east-1` (N. Virginia) region.

## Create an SNS Topic and Subscribe an Email Address

To get started, we need to create an SNS topic. To do so, on the *Services* page, under *Application Integration*, select **Simple Notification Service**. On this page, in the *Create topic* section, enter in *EC2statechange* and then select **Next step**. On the *Create topic* page, select **Create topic**.

Here, on the *EC2statechange* page, select **Create subscription**. For the *Protocol*, from the dropdown, select **Email**. For the *Endpoint*, enter your email and then select **Create Subscription**.

Go to our email. We now have an *AWS Notification* email. In it, select the **Confirm subscription** link. Now, go back to the AWS portal. Our *Status* is now set to *Confirmed*.

## Create a CloudWatch Events Rule to Trigger the SNS Topic

With our email confirmed, it is time to create the CloudWatch events rule so that we can trigger the SNS topic when there is a state change to an EC2 instance. To do so, go back to *Services*, then, under *Management & Governance*, select **CloudWatch**. On the *CloudWatch: Overview* page, select the **Events** option from the left bar.

Here, on the *Amazon CloudWatch Events* page, select **Get started**. In here, under *Event Source* fill out the following:

- *Service Name*: EC2
- *Event Type*: EC2 Instance State-change Notification
- Any state
- Any instance

Next, select **Add target** in the *Targets* section, and set the fields to the following:

- SNS topic
- *Topic:* EC2StateChange

On the next page, set the name to *EC2instancestatechange*. Then, select **Create rule**.

## Change the State of the EC2 Instance and Verify Receipt of the SNS Notification

Finally, we can test our work by changing the state of our EC2 instance. To do so, go back to the *Services* page, and, under *Compute*, select **EC2**. Here, select **Running Instances**. On this page, select the **Actions** dropdown, then **Instance State**, and **Stop**. Change the state of the EC2 instance to stop. We are prompted with something asking us if we're sure we want to stop the instance — select **Yes, Stop**.

Once the instance is stopped, we get a message to the email we entered earlier. It lets us know that we have had a state change to our instance. Upon receiving this email, it means that we have set up the alert correctly.

## Conclusion

Upon completing this lab, we are now able to create an alert to let us know when our instances have changed their state. Congratulations on finishing this lab!

**Note: Please delete your email in the SNS section before closing the lab.**