# AWS EC2 Custom Logging with CloudWatch

## Introduction

In this hands-on lab, we'll learn how to send logging data from EC2 to Amazon CloudWatch.

Log in to the AWS environment using the `cloud_user` credentials provided on the lab instructions page.

Once you're logged in to the AWS account, make sure you are using `us-east-1` (N. Virginia) as the selected region.

## Custom EC2 Logging

### Create an EC2 instance

1. From the AWS Management Console dashboard, navigate to EC2.

2. Click **Launch Instance**.

3. Select **Amazon Linux AMI** (*not* Amazon Linux 2 AMI).

4. Select **t2.micro**, and click **Next: Configure Instance Details**.

5. On the **Configure Instance Details** page:

   - Set *Auto-assign Public IP* to **Enable**.
- In the *IAM role* dropdown, select the role listed (there should just be one, which includes the phrase *InstanceLoggingProfile*).
   - Leave the other defaults.

6. Click **Review and Launch**.

7. Click **Launch**.

8. Select **Create a new key pair** from the dropdown, and type "EC2Logging" for *Key pair name*. Click **Download Key Pair**.

9. Click **Launch Instances**.

10. Click **View Instances**.

### Log In to the Instance Via SSH

1. Open your terminal application.

2. Switch to your ``downloads`` directory.

   ```
cd downloads
   ```
   
3. From your ``downloads`` directory, change permissions on the key pair:

   ```
chmod 400 EC2Logging.pem
   ```
   
4. Go back to the AWS Console in your browser. Once our new instance is in a *running* state, select it by clicking the checkbox on the left.

5. Click **Connect**.

6. Copy the command under **Example** in the popup menu, and paste it in to your command line. It will look something like this (make sure you replace the ``<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>`` parameter:

   ```bash
ssh -i "EC2Logging.pem" ec2-user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>.compute-1.amazonaws.com
   ```

7. Type `yes` at the prompt.

8. Update the instance.

   ```
   sudo yum update -y
   ```

9. Install the ``awslogs`` package.

   ```
sudo yum install -y awslogs
   ```
   
10. Change to the ``awslogs`` directory.

    ```
cd /etc/awslogs
    ```
    
11. List the contents to see the configuration files.

    ```
    ls
    ```

    > **Note:** The `/etc/awslogs/awscli.conf` file contains credentials and region information, so if we needed to change anything for those items, we'd do it there. The `/etc/awslogs/awslogs.conf` file contains the settings for CloudWatch logging, so from that file, we could determine which logs to watch, add or remove log streams, and change default settings like time zone. But we won't change any of these items in this lab.

12. Turn on the `awslogs` service.

    ```
    sudo service awslogs start
    ```

13. Check for errors.

    ```
    less /var/log/awslogs.log
    ```

14. Exit by entering:

    ```
    q
    ```

15. Ensure the service starts after reboots.

    ```
    sudo chkconfig awslogs on
    ```

### Verify CloudWatch Logs Sent from EC2

1. Head back to the AWS Management Console dashboard, and navigate to the CloudWatch service.
2. Click **Logs** in the sidebar.
3. On the *Log Groups* page, click **/var/log/messages**.
4. Under *Log Streams*, click the listed instance ID to view the log files.

## Conclusion

Congratulations on completing this lab!



- file 에 설정된 값( /var/log/messages) 경로에서 로그 확인가능
- => cloudwatch에서 로그 확인 가능

- /etc/awslogs : awslogs 설정파일



>  /var/log/awslogs.log    VS    /var/log/messages

- /var/log/awslogs.log : cloud watch 에이전트가 잘 동작하는지 확인하기위해서 보여주는 로그
-  /var/log/messages : ec2 인스턴스의 로그들 보여줌